# Interregnum {#interregnum}

Snurf made friends as easily as any child would if ripped from their family&#039;s previously comfortable existence. Though the years after Tlu&#039;s hurried departure that day were not unkind to the family his father&#039;s absences grew longer and his mother&#039;s temper grew shorter. Snurf himself learned to not give too much away to others, the frequent moves as his father was reassigned to different population centres removed any trace of stability.

There was always the rumour that father was in some way responsible for the ship malfunction that killed the Snarglist and thousands of unfortunate Thorgons half the world away. He denied it to Tlerj and to Snurf of course, but one factor central to Thorgon society, the need for structure, made a resolution to their situation practically impossible.

The Accident Committee had simply grown too big. There were too many subcommittees to count, figuratively-speaking, as the scope of the Inquiry grew. Amongst them, ones for Accident Investigation, Ground Fatalities, In-Vehicle Fatalities, Personnel Post-Employment Vetting, various Engineering Assessment subcommittees and, of course, one for Oversight.

The main blockage was the biggest. The Succession Committee, directly in charge of the Accident Committee which, though technically a subcommittee was given a higher status due to the impact of the loss. Nothing like the subsequent fallout from the events of that dark night has ever happened before; the Thorgon Snarglist himself had always appointed a successor, always. This one though, this one was different. He had had no children, had no brothers or sisters, cousins or nieces. Being in the position for not-quite two years hadn&#039;t given time to create that part of his Plan, his input into the design of the star ship that eventually killed him had consumed his life.

Life on Thorgon Prime didn&#039;t exactly stop, but neither did things progress much. Excuses by other committees and subcommittees and ancillary organisations were many, excuses that without guidance from the Snarglist their strategies could not be integrated into the new Thorgon grew with time. All of it mounted up, all of it competed with the rest.

So Thorgon society, technological development, all stagnated. That is, until someone came up with the brilliant idea to link the disparate bureaucratic machines together to form one big one. Efficiencies would surely follow; the arguments were irrefutable, as dense as cast-iron, watertight as a duck&#039;s, er… and some were occasionally even logical.

The Machine Name Committee discussed the system&#039;s name for a day and so it became &#039;The Bureaucratic Machine.&#039; The reason for their speed soon became known; their last act was to set up the framework of a Committee for Integrating Current Systems Into The Bureaucratic Machine. Each of the Machine Name Committee members had a senior place on the new committee.

Snurf&#039;s father worked on behalf of the Machine Services Procurement Subcommittee, a position separated far-enough from his previous Engineering post to keep everyone happy. Apart from Snurf and his parents, that is; the long cross-planet trips took their toll on family life. His father&#039;s ability shone though and promotions came regularly, if slowly.

One benefit, if it could be called that, father took the time to explain to his son what would be expected in his future. Entrance into The Academy, training to follow his father&#039;s profession and, on his retirement, to take over; all standard progressions in Thorgon society. What differed was the depth of knowledge of the trade he passed on. All the transferable skills such as negotiation, conflict resolution, the study of the parties involved in negotiation, even the importance of creating a professional separation and persona to that of the private self.

Snurf enjoyed the lessons just as much as building toys and creating imaginary worlds, and as much as the stories both parents read to him at bedtimes. His appetite for learning and the enforced need for adaptability, alongside an imagination that knew no limits, all made for a childhood, though not entirely stress-free, at least completely free from boredom.

The often-remembered sandpit games with Tlu had by now evolved into complex simulations, created and perfected when time was available on The Machine. Creating towns, cities and planet-wide systems, equipping armies and space fleets and evolving and maintaining them all was was of course absorbing, but his mother had him make time for social activities too. Trips to the beach, frequent walks with the now fully-grown hundo giving him time to talk about his plans with Gibflib, an eager listener. There were museum visits, and of course more exposure to events designed to enhance knowledge of The Creed.

Every Thorgon had to follow The Creed from birth. Time was set aside by every family to study it and to ensure children at least adhered to its basic principles. Snurf&#039;s father had explained it in pragmatic terms to his son, that learning it was necessary to get along with everyone else and that the whole of Thorgon life ran around and within the rules it imposed.

On the occasion of Snurf&#039;s mid-tens-years anniversary, the occasion of the presentation of his personal copy of the Creed, he pulled his son aside from the rest of the family and the invited guests. He told his son quietly, almost conspiratorially, to search for inconsistencies that could be used for his benefit. Snurf nodded, though he didn&#039;t quite understand yet. He was as close though to understanding as any 15-year-old before him.